- [Instructor] Now let's understand how to
end a user session.
When we set up the interceptor,
we had retrieved the session ID
in our preHandle method,
and we saw that that session ID
was already printed for every request that you're making
to the h plus application.
We also need to make sure
that we end that user session at some point in time.
For that, we have a logout link out here
on the profile JSP that we just worked with
in the previous video.
We are going to click it,
and when we click,
we are supposed to end the user session
for all the requests that happened during the session.
So when we click on logout link,
we are just going to end the user session,
and then we'll see
how this behavior of session management happens.
So let's go back to the IDE,
and the first step will be to create the LogoutController,
so on the controllers package,
let's create a class, label it LogoutController.
Business as usual, I'm not going through it.
At Controller, and GetMapping,
and follow that with a method.
So I'm just saying logout, okay.
Now, from this logout method,
we are basically supposed to end the user session.
But in order to do that,
we'll have to grab the HttpSession object.
So you can just quickly put that as a method parameter.
So this is the beauty of this Spring Framework.
Whatever objects you need,
they can be plugged in very quickly
as method arguments to your methods.
So when we started off with the discussion,
we have discussed that using Spring MVC is very flexible.
The signature of the method, you decide!
You decide what arguments you want,
plug them in, and you are ready to go.
So that's what this does for you.
So I'm just going to grab the session as an argument here.
Let's go to next line, and just call
the session dot invalidate method.
I'm just going to put a Sys-out additionally
saying, "Ending user session."
And what is this going to return?
Let's just return the login page.
Now that we have invalidated the session,
on the next line, if we try to do something like this,
let's say session dot getAttribute login.
The same bean that we had actually stored
in the session object using session attributes annotation,
I'm just trying to get that attribute.
It is not possible to get that attribute here.
Because before this line itself,
you already ended the session.
So this is just to exhibit
that the session definitely ended.
Okay, so once we do this,
let's just go and make sure that this URL pattern
is mapped to the correct link on profile JSP.
So let's open that,
let's go to the logout link on line 17,
and plug in that URL pattern.
Similarly, I'm also going to plug in the other URL patterns
that we have on profile JSP
because this is a new JSP that we added.
So let's do that.
Just to iterate,
these URL pattern names are completely your choice.
I'm just trying to embed names which are logical
from this h plus application point of view.
This is completely your design,
and there's nothing to argue about it.
Nothing's right or wrong.
So there we go, we have the LogoutController in place,
and we have the logout link which is tied up with it.
Let's do the build of this,
and then we can see what happens.
So for this now, I am going to open an Incognito window
just to observe the entire session management
cycle that happens.
So, I'm just going to maximize this window a little bit
so that we see the output clearly.
It's cleared out everything.
Let's access home first.
Let's go to the IDE now and see what happened.
So we got an incoming request data log session was null.
That is correct.
Let's go to the LoginInterceptor
and find out what this happened.
Here we are.
Inside the interceptor,
we are already making a check
asking if the cookies that you're getting from request
are null or not.
Now this is an Incognito window,
which means that it will not maintain
the previous session information.
Which is why the cookies object
that you are trying to get right now is null.
There's nothing there.
Which is good, we are absolutely on the right track.
Now, let's go ahead and access the login link.
And let's go back to the IDE and see what happened.
So now you have a session ID that has got generated for you.
So that's for the gotoLogin request.
Now let's go and log in.
Make a successful login, say admin, admin.
Log in, and let's see what happened next.
So now it is the same session ID
that has been tagged to your request.
Now also let's go ahead and logout from this.
So I'm just going to click this link.
And if you see, you're getting an internal server error.
Let's go back to the IDE and examine what happened.
So the first thing is of course
it definitely got a session ID
which is the same as the previous request.
It did that job perfectly for you for the logout URL.
After that it says there's an IllegalStateException
for getAttribute, the session was already invalidated.
That is right.
So whatever information that was stored
as a part of the session object
has now been completely erased
because you have called the session dot invalidate API.
So this is one way of ending the session,
so that we ensure that no other information
from that session object will be further available.
So what I can do is I can just comment this line out
because that's the one that's giving me a problem.
We do not want this.
And let me just build this again,
and now observe the behavior.
Open another Incognito window again,
and access the home.
So the cycle is pretty much the same.
Initially we won't get anything.
Nothing stored because it's a new, fresh window.
And then let's log in.
And when you click, I will reach the profile page.
So if you see, now the session ID
is ready with me, for the gotoLogin page,
for the login URL pattern,
and also for the user profile pattern.
So every successive request that is coming in
is tagged to the same session ID.
And now, let me click on logout.
And now, we go back to login, simple.
So now let's see again, there we go.
So you have the same session ID
for all the requests in that particular session.
Now I'm going to do one more thing.
I'm just going to hit some other URL again.
And now let's see what happens.
You see, the session ID now changed.
So we are definitely responsible for ending the session
whenever we want to in our h plus application.
It will be our duty to do that.
And then when you hit a new request again,
a new session will get generated
along with its session ID.
So in short, session management can be done very easily.
It's borrowing the same concept that it has in servlet JSP.
You can do extensive set of features with session management
inside your web application.
But this is just a basic demo to get you started
to make sure we know how do you end the session
in a Spring MVC application.
Another thing to note here is
the way we grab the HttpSession object
in the LogoutController, you can do the same thing
inside the LoginController.
So on line 24, I can add a method argument like that.
And then you can do a full session management
starting from this point, with the session object.
So let's say you want to go ahead and say
session dot setAttribute,
and set some key-value data to it,
you can completely do that.
In fact it is always advised that we completely set up
the session management for our application.
We try to set the data inside the session object
using Spring MVC's way of doing it,
at SessionAttribute and all of that,
but you definitely can, and should,
set up the entire session management
by grabbing that HttpSession object,
and that's exactly what we even utilized
in the LogoutController to close the session.
Additionally, you can also configure
the max timeout interval.
So on your LoginController,
if you look at the session object,
and you can say setMaxInactiveInterval.
So what is the session timeout
that you want to define for your application.
All of that basic configuration is possible
using the HttpSession object.
So I'm going to eliminate this,
just to show you guys that this is definitely okay,
and this is something that should be done.